Add sidekiq tile (#6098)
DataDog/integrations-core: sidekiq/README.md

# Agent Integration: Sidekiq

## Overview

This integration monitors [Sidekiq][3] through [Dogstatsd][5]. It collects metrics through [Datadog's Dogstatsd Ruby client][4].

**Note** Only Sidekiq Pro (>= 3.6) or Enterprise (>= 1.1.0) users can collect metrics.

## Setup

### Installation

The Sidekiq integration is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package.
No additional installation is needed on your server.

### Configuration

> 1. Ensure that you have the `dogstatsd-ruby` [gem][4] installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the `dogstatsd-ruby` [gem][4]:
```

```
  gem install dogstatsd-ruby
```

2. Enable Sidekiq Pro metric collection by including this in your initializer:

```ruby
    require 'datadog/statsd' # gem 'dogstatsd-ruby'

    Sidekiq::Pro.dogstatsd = ->{ Datadog::Statsd.new('metrics.example.com', 8125, namespace:'sidekiq') }

    Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
      config.server_middleware do |chain|
        require 'sidekiq/middleware/server/statsd'
        chain.add Sidekiq::Middleware::Server::Statsd
      end
    end
  ```

> 3. If you are using Sidekiq Enterprise and would like to collect historical metrics, include this line as well:

Author: Sure!

```ruby
    Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
      # history is captured every 30 seconds by default
      config.retain_history(30)
    end

> ```

Author: Updated the indents!

>   See the Sidekiq [Pro][6] and [Enterprise][7] documentation for more information and [Datadog Ruby][7] documentation for further configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  See the Sidekiq [Pro][6] and [Enterprise][7] documentation for more information, and the [Datadog Ruby][7] documentation for further configuration options.
```

   ```yaml
   # dogstatsd_mapper_cache_size: 1000  # default to 1000
   dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
     - name: sidekiq
       prefix: "sidekiq."
       mappings:
         - match: "sidekiq.sidekiq.*"
           name: "sidekiq.*"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.avg"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.avg"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.count"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.count"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.max"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.max"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.median"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.median"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.95percentile"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.95percentile"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"

    ```

4. [Restart the Agent][8].

### Validation

[Run the Agent's `status` subcommand][10] and look for `sidekiq` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

> See [metadata.csv][12] for a list of metrics provided by this integration. Custom metrics may be added in Sidekiq itself. Browse the [Sidekiq documentation][11] for custom metric inspiration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [metadata.csv][12] for a list of metrics provided by this integration. 

Add custom metrics in Sidekiq. See the [Sidekiq documentation][11] for custom metric inspiration.
```

Reviewer: this needs to be phrased a specific way for the table to show up in the docs. double checking it to make sure this will work

### Log Collection

1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in the `datadog.yaml` file with:

    ```yaml
      logs_enabled: true
    ```

2. Add this configuration block to your `sidekiq.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Sidekiq logs:

    ```yaml
      logs:
        - type: file

>           path:  /var/log/Sidekiq.log

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          path:  /var/log/sidekiq.log
```

          source: sidekiq
          sourcecategory: jobrunner

>           service: <SERVICE_NAME>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          service: <SERVICE>
```
spec.yaml uses ` <SERVICE>` placeholder, let's keep it consistent

    ```

>      Change the `path` and `service` parameter values and configure them for your environment. If you cannot find your logs, [you can look in the Sidekiq documentation to see how to change your logging][9].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Change the `path` and `service` parameter values and configure them for your environment. If you cannot find your logs, [see the Sidekiq documentation on more details about logs][9].
```

>      Change the `path` and `service` parameter values and configure them for your environment. If you cannot find your logs, [you can look in the sidekiq documentation to see how to change your logging][9].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Change the `path` and `service` parameter values and configure them for your environment. If you cannot find your logs, [you can look in the Sidekiq documentation to see how to change your logging][9].
```

**Note** Only Sidekiq Pro (>= 3.6) or Enterprise (>= 1.1.0) users can collect metrics.

## Setup

### Installation

The Sidekiq integration is packaged with the [Datadog Agent][2].
No additional installation is needed on your server.

### Configuration

1. Install the `dogstatsd-ruby` [gem][4]:

   ```
    gem install dogstatsd-ruby
   ```

2. Enable Sidekiq Pro metric collection by including this in your initializer:

   ```ruby
        require 'datadog/statsd' # gem 'dogstatsd-ruby'

        Sidekiq::Pro.dogstatsd = ->{ Datadog::Statsd.new('metrics.example.com', 8125, namespace:'sidekiq') }

        Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
          config.server_middleware do |chain|
            require 'sidekiq/middleware/server/statsd'
            chain.add Sidekiq::Middleware::Server::Statsd
          end
        end
   ```

    If you are using Sidekiq Enterprise and would like to collect historical metrics, include this line as well:

   ```ruby
          Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
            # history is captured every 30 seconds by default
            config.retain_history(30)
          end
   ```

>   See the Sidekiq [Pro][6] and [Enterprise][7] documentation for more information, and the [Datadog Ruby][7] documentation for further configuration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      See the Sidekiq [Pro][6] and [Enterprise][7] documentation for more information, and the [Datadog Ruby][7] documentation for further configuration options.
```

> 4. Update the [Datadog Agent main configuration file][13] `datadog.yaml` by adding the following configs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Update the [Datadog Agent main configuration file][13] `datadog.yaml` by adding the following configs:
```

Reviewer 2: Step 5 should also be changed to step 4.

Author: Sure!

   ```yaml
   # dogstatsd_mapper_cache_size: 1000  # default to 1000
   dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
     - name: sidekiq
       prefix: "sidekiq."
       mappings:
         - match: "sidekiq.sidekiq.*"
           name: "sidekiq.*"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.avg"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.avg"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.count"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.count"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.max"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.max"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.median"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.median"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"
         - match: "sidekiq.jobs.*.perform.95percentile"
           name: "sidekiq.jobs.perform.95percentile"
           tags:
             worker: "$1"

    ```

4. [Restart the Agent][8].

### Validation

[Run the Agent's `status` subcommand][10] and look for `sidekiq` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][12] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

> Add custom metrics in Sidekiq. See the [Sidekiq documentation][11] for custom metric inspiration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sidekiq integration also allows custom metrics, see the [Sidekiq documentation][11] for custom metric inspiration.
```
or "To add custom metrics, see the [Sidekiq documentation][11] for custom metric inspiration."?
